# Portfolio Website
#### Video Demo: <https://youtu.be/HZEvTL-61GM>
#### Description:
My project is a Portfolio website that I may use in the future to showcase my work, experience and skills. My goal for this was to make my own platform from which employers can see whether I am suitable for a position at their company, downloading a copy of my CV(resume) and also getting into contact with me via the contact form at the bottom of the website, if they so wish.

I have designed my website to be simple, elegant and easy to use. There is a horizontal menu at the top right, where a click on each link will scroll to the selected section. I chose to design the website in such a way for, again, simplicity, instead of each link taking the user to another page for the selected section. A simple scroll was the best option for me. There is also a parallax effect upon scrolling past the main basckground image, which I thought was a nice added detail to the website's design.

I made my website with 2 main files an index.html file and a style.css file. The index file has all of the main functionality of the website, like links, menus, titles, text as well as javascript. This is also where I have included fontawesome icons and the images for the website. The style file contains all of the css design for aspects for my website; properties such as margin, padding, colour, transform, transition, border radius, etc.

On the homepage of my website, there is a bold title, with a logo in the top left corner of simply - my name. I made a hover function for the top menu where upon hover a pink underline will emerge from the centre, startng as a single pixel and transitioning outwards to form a line of the length of that particular menu item. When the cursor is moved from an item, the underline reverses back to that central point.

The next section of my website is an "about me" section. Here I chose to implement a tab section where a user can switch between "skills", "experience", and "education", with relevant information in each. The titles of these tabs have another underline function, where upon clicking, half of the word is underlined in a transition going from left to right till the centre point of the word, as to not use the same effect on the main menu.

The services section has 3 large text boxes that become raised slightly and change colour when the cursor hovers over them. This effect was created using the transform property in css. Each text box also includes a "learn more" link.

In the Portfolio section, each image is subject to a hover effect, where the image zooms in slghtly and the text and button arises from the bottom with a pink semi-transparent gradient. When the cursor is moved away from the image, the text goes back down. This was also created in css, where the text was made hidden by default and then after hover over, transition and transform properties were used to make it visible again. I have included a "see more" button so that in the future I may include additonal work to display and the "see more" button would allow me to make visible extra rows of work, displayed in the same format.

The last section of my website is for contacting me. Here I have my contact details and socials listed on the left collumn, where the icons move up and change colour when the cursor is hovering over it. They also will contain links to each of the socials. Below this is a "CV" download button, where a user can download a copy of my CV, if they so wish, after clicking the button. On the right-hand side, there is a contact form. Here the user may enter their name, email and a message. The name and email field is required and if the user does not enter something into the name field or a valid email address that includes "@" symbol a message will appear telling the user they have to something into those fields. Once the user clicks on the "submit" button the information they input into the fields will automatically be entered into a Google Sheets document I have set up for this sole purpose. This fuction was made using a script on the HTML file by Jamie Wilson. It includes a message pop up to let the user know their message was sent successfully. The message disappears after 5 seconds and the form is refreshed.

Lastly, I made the website compatible, as with phone screen sizes. For this I used the "@media" query in the stylesheet, where I made sure everything adjusted correctly to the smaller screen size, which were some of the images, text and titles. For this screen size, I also changed the main menu at the top to be a side menu which can be toggled via a click of the button on the top left of the screen. The menu can be closed via a click of a different corresponding button. The side menu function was made using a script in the HTML file and adjusted the transition and timing in the stylesheet. The menu appears from the right side of the screen to half way through the screen. Scrolling is still possible with the menu open. The menu closes by moving back to the right side of the screen where it remains hidden again.# myPortfolio
